OSASINFRA-3066: Added migration procedure for Kuryr SDN. (#54822)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-kuryr-migration-about.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/migrate-from-openshift-sdn.adoc

[id="nw-kuryr-ovn-kubernetes-migration-about_{context}"]
= Migration to the OVN-Kubernetes network provider

Migrating to the OVN-Kubernetes network plug-in is a manual process that includes some downtime during which your cluster is unreachable. Note, the migration is a one-way process.

A migration to the OVN-Kubernetes network plug-in is supported basically on {rh-openstack-first} based platform.

[id="considerations-kuryr-migrating-network-provider_{context}"]
== Considerations for migrating to the OVN-Kubernetes network provider

> The subnets assigned to nodes and the IP addresses assigned to individual pods are not preserved during the migration.

Reviewer: I get the reason behind Pods IP not being preserved, but why the Subnets defined for the Nodes are not preserved?

> * If your cluster uses any part of the 100.64.0.0/16 IP address range, you must specify an alternative IP address range for OVN-Kubernetes during the migration to avoid a conflict because OVN-Kubernetes uses this IP address range internally.

Reviewer 2: I never tested if that works, but honestly I don't see why it wouldn't.

[id="how-the-kuryr-migration-process-works_{context}"]
== How the migration process works

The following table summarizes the migration process by segmenting between the user-initiated steps in the process and the actions that the migration performs in response.

.Migrating to OVN-Kubernetes from Kuryr
[cols="1,1a",options="header"]
|===

|User-initiated steps|Migration activity

|
Set the `migration` field of the `Network.operator.openshift.io` custom resource (CR) named `cluster` to `OVNKubernetes`. Make sure the `migration` field is `null` before setting it to a value.
|
Cluster Network Operator (CNO):: Updates the status of the `Network.config.openshift.io` CR named `cluster` accordingly.
Machine Config Operator (MCO):: Rolls out an update to the systemd configuration necessary for OVN-Kubernetes; The MCO updates a single machine per pool at a time by default, causing the total time the migration takes to increase with the size of the cluster.

|Update the `networkType` field of the `Network.config.openshift.io` CR.
|
CNO:: Performs the following actions:
+
--

> * Destroys the Kuryr control plane pods.

Reviewer: Kuryr controller and CNI? Perhaps is worth to mention it

== How the migration process works

The following table summarizes the migration process by relating the steps that you perform with the actions that your cluster and Operators take.

.The Kuryr to OVN-Kubernetes migration process
[cols="1,1a",options="header"]
|===

|User-initiated steps|Migration activity

|
Set the `migration` field of the `Network.operator.openshift.io` custom resource (CR) named `cluster` to `OVNKubernetes`. Verify that the value of the `migration` field prints the `null` value before setting it to another value.
|
Cluster Network Operator (CNO):: Updates the status of the `Network.config.openshift.io` CR named `cluster` accordingly.
Machine Config Operator (MCO):: Deploys an update to the systemd configuration that is required by OVN-Kubernetes. By default, the MCO updates a single machine per pool at a time. As a result, large clusters have longer migration times.

|Update the `networkType` field of the `Network.config.openshift.io` CR.
|
CNO:: Performs the following actions:
+
--
* Destroys the Kuryr control plane pods: Kuryr CNIs and the Kuryr controller.
* Deploys the OVN-Kubernetes control plane pods.

> * Updates the Multus objects to reflect the new network plug-in.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Updates the Multus objects to reflect the new network plugin.
```

[id="how-the-kuryr-migration-process-works_{context}"]
== How the migration process works

The following table summarizes the migration process by relating the steps that you perform in the process with the actions that your cluster and Operators take.

.The Kuryr to OVN-Kubernetes migration process
[cols="1,1a",options="header"]
|===

|User-initiated steps|Migration activity

|
Set the `migration` field of the `Network.operator.openshift.io` custom resource (CR) named `cluster` to `OVNKubernetes`. Verify that the value of the `migration` field is `null` before setting it to another value.
|
Cluster Network Operator (CNO):: Updates the status of the `Network.config.openshift.io` CR named `cluster` accordingly.
Machine Config Operator (MCO):: Deploys an update to the systemd configuration that is required by OVN-Kubernetes. By default, the MCO updates a single machine per pool at a time. As a result, large clusters have longer migration times.

|Update the `networkType` field of the `Network.config.openshift.io` CR.
|
CNO:: Performs the following actions:
+
--

> * Destroys the Kuryr control plane pods, which means Kuryr CNIs and the Kuryr controller.

Author: I have altered this sentence from "including Kuryr CNIs and the Kuryr controller." to "which means Kuryr CNIs and the Kuryr controller.", as controller and CNIs are what we call pods of Kuryr control plane.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Destroys the Kuryr control plane pods: Kuryr CNIs and the Kuryr controller.
```
